.TH MIGRATE-DISKS 1 "2026-07-21" "proxmox-storage-migrate" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
migrate-disks \- bulk-migrate Proxmox VE guest storage between storages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B migrate-disks
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B migrate-disks
bulk-migrates Proxmox VE guest storage (VM disks and container volumes)
from one storage to another, optionally across an entire cluster, in
parallel. It wraps
.B qm move-disk
and
.B pct move-volume
with discovery, parallelism, QCOW2/raw format handling, TPM state and
container shutdown handling, per-move verification, and logging.
.PP
Must be run as root on a Proxmox VE host.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-s \ storage
Source storage. Required; there is no default.
.TP
.BI \-t \ storage
Target storage. Required; there is no default.
.TP
.BI \-f \ format
Preferred VM disk format (default: qcow2; automatically falls back to raw
on storage that can't hold it).
.TP
.BI \-p \ N
Max guests migrated in parallel (default: 5).
.TP
.B \-A
All nodes (whole cluster). Default is this node only.
.TP
.B \-V
VMs only (skip containers).
.TP
.B \-C
Containers only (skip VMs).
.TP
.B \-S
Stop/move/start VMs to migrate offline-only volumes (TPM state).
.TP
.B \-k
Keep source volumes (omit \-\-delete).
.TP
.B \-n
Dry run.
.TP
.B \-y
Skip the confirmation prompt.
.TP
.B \-h
Show help.
.SH BEHAVIOR NOTES
TPM state volumes are always raw and can only move while the VM is
stopped: without \fB\-S\fR they're skipped on a running VM and reported;
with \fB\-S\fR they're deferred to a phase that shuts the VM down
gracefully (then forcibly), moves the volume, and restarts it.
.PP
A container's volumes can only move while it's stopped. A running
container is always (regardless of any flag) stopped, has every volume
migrated, and is restarted in the same deferred fashion as TPM state.
.SH SAFETY
This tool deletes the source volume after a successful move unless
\fB\-k\fR is given, and can stop and restart guests. Always run with
\fB\-n\fR first to review the plan before committing.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/default/proxmox-storage-migrate
Optional. Sets new defaults for any option above; a matching command-line
flag still overrides it, and this file overrides the script's own built-in
defaults. A setting left commented out (or the file missing entirely) falls
back to the script's built-in default, same as before this file existed.
Installed commented-out by the package; every setting is documented inline
in the file.
.SH SEE ALSO
Full documentation and source:
.br
https://github.com/neojames/proxmox-storage-migrate
